# Start a Project

So you have a project--or an idea for a project--to make life better
for the people of DC and you want to bring it to Code for DC? Awesome!
We're glad you thought of us. In order to help us help you, here's
what you should do:

## Make a Github repo

You may already have one, but make sure that you have a Github repo
for the project. This is true even if the project is still just an
idea: a repo saves the space, offers some discussion tools, and makes
it possible for other people to begin working on the project. The only
document that's really required is a `README` file explaining (1) what
the project is and (2) how to run the project locally, if applicable.

To take the administrative burden off of you, Code for DC can set up a
repo for the project in our Github organization. If you want us to do
that, just let us know. If you already have a repo, this is still
possible: it can be
[transferred](https://help.github.com/articles/how-to-transfer-a-repository)
into the Code for DC organization without losing any of the commit
history or issue.

## Choose a license

This is an important step for the type of open work we do at Code for
DC. Without a license, each contribution is copyrighted by the
individual author, which can make something of a mess. We recommend
using a
[CC0 license](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/legalcode)
for maximum openness, but there are other popular open-source
licenses. You can find one that works for you
[here](http://choosealicense.com/).

Once you've selected a license, you should include the text of that
license in a `LICENSE.md` file in the root of your repo. Additionally,
you should include language, either in the `README` or a separate
`CONTRIBUTING.md` file stating that contributors to the repo agree to
license their work under the same license. It's also a good practice
to mention the license you've chosen in the `README`, as well.

If anybody besides you contributed to the project before a license was
applied, or if you change the license, make sure to get their
approval. This can be done in whatever way works: in person, via
email, or even a
[Github issue](https://github.com/project-open-data/project-open-data.github.io/pull/135).

## Put a `civic.json` file in that repo

A `civic.json` file is the metadata file of the type of civic-oriented
project we work on here at Code for DC. We've made a template to start
you off, and it's available right
[here](./civic-dot-json/civic.json.template). For instructions on how
to fill it out, check out the specifications
[here](./civic-dot-json/specification.md).

## Let everybody know

Head over to [the projects page](http://codefordc.org/projects) and
submit the project's repo URL to us. We'll pull information from
Github and that `civic.json` file and make it look nice. Feel free to
send a message out to the
[listserv](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/dc-cfa-brigade), as
well, explaining what the project is and what sort of help you think
is needed.

## Bonus: Make contributing easy

### Use Common and Accessible Tools

When choosing the tools that will be used to build the project,
consider the startup time that a new recruit will need to learn how to
use those tools. Since Code for DC projects are mostly volunteer
projects and are open to non-experts, using tools that are common
across projects or that are simpler to learn may significantly reduce
startup time and increase the number of pull requests you
receive. There is a trade-off between cutting-edge and community
engagement, so keep that in mind.

For example, the Code for DC website is built in Jekyll to take
advantage of Github Pages. Jekyll has built-in support for Sass, so we
have a choice between that and CSS when writing our stylesheets. Sass
is pretty useful, but using it would require anybody who wants to work
on our CSS to learn an entire new language. As a result, we're
sticking with CSS for now to keep things accessible.

### Simple Installation

To allow potential contributors to get up and running on the project
quickly, we recommend using tools like the
[Chrome Dev Editor](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/chrome-dev-editor-develop/pnoffddplpippgcfjdhbmhkofpnaalpg?hl=en),
[Docker](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VeiUjkiqo9E), or
[Vagrant](https://docs.vagrantup.com/v2/why-vagrant/) to simplify
local installation. Less time installing the project means more time
getting work done!
