# Tools

Once you're working on a project, here are some great tools to save
you time and energy.

## HTML/CSS

[Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/): CSS framework to make
website-building a (relative) breeze

[Color Wheel](https://kuler.adobe.com/create/color-wheel/): Find
colors that look great together

[Animate.css](http://daneden.github.io/animate.css/): Easy text
animations

## Licensing your work and collaborating

Licensing sounds boring, but it's the best way to keep your code open
to others. If you don't provide a license, your work is presumed to be
fully copyrighted and therefore closed to others. Code for DC
recommends keeping your license in a `LICENSE.md` file. If any
explanation is necessary for contributions by others, we recommend
including that in your readme or in a separate `CONTRIBUTING.md` file.

[Choose A License](http://choosealicense.com/)

## Frameworks for sites and web apps

Frameworks allow you to create templates and scripts for a dynamic
site

[Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/): The web framework used by Github
Pages; probably most useful if you are using that for hosting

[Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/): A full-featured framework
built on Python

[Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/): Another Python framework; fewer
features and less powerful, but simpler to set up

[Express](http://expressjs.com/guide.html): A Node-based framework

[Sinatra](http://www.sinatrarb.com/): A Ruby-based framework

## Javascript Libraries

[jQuery](https://jquery.com/): Add interactivity to your site

[Moment](http://momentjs.com/): Work with dates easily

[Typeahead](https://twitter.github.io/typeahead.js/): Autocomplete
functions for forms

[Underscore](http://underscorejs.org/): Additional Javascript
functionality to make programming simpler

## Hosting

[Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/): Apps with low data needs are free,
and the price after that scales with usage

[Dotcloud](https://www.dotcloud.com/): Another hosting option

[Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/): Your code already lives
there and hosting is free, but all of your information will be out in
the open (if passwords, etc. are required, this can be a security
risk).

[Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com/): Relatively cheap cloud
hosting for anything, including static files

## Font Families and Images

[Font Awesome](https://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/): Easily
add icons to your site

[GSA logos](https://github.com/GSA/logo): Logos for government agencies

## Scraping

[BeautifulSoup (Python)](http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/)

[Phantom JS](http://phantomjs.org/)

## GIS/Mapping

[QuantumGIS/QGIS](http://qgis.org/en/site/)

[CartodDB](http://cartodb.com)

[Mapbox](https://www.mapbox.com)

TileMill

[Leaflet](http://leafletjs.com/)

[Color Brewer](http://colorbrewer2.org/): Find colors for maps and
data viz

## [Data viz](http://selection.datavisualization.ch/)

[D3.js](http://d3js.org/)

[Tableau](http://www.tableausoftware.com/)

[Rapha&euml;l](http://raphaeljs.com/)

## Reading/extracting PDFs

Tesseract

Mechanical Turk

[Tabula](http://tabula.nerdpower.org/)

## Data cleaning/munging/conversion

[Google Refine/Open Refine](https://github.com/OpenRefine/OpenRefine)

Datawrangler

[Mr. Data Convertor](http://shancarter.github.io/mr-data-converter/)

## Interacting with Government Agencies

FOIA

## APIs

[ProgrammableWeb](http://www.programmableweb.com/category/all/apis):
Extensive directory of APIs

Census

[Sunlight](http://sunlightfoundation.com/api/): The Open States API
may be of particular interest to DC-based projects

SeeClickFix
